With all our code added, let's head over to the index.js file in the functions folder.
Keep in mind, that's our NodeJS code running on the Firebase server and you could of course also run
it on your own node web server.
This code here,
that's basically the core meat, you can of course reach out to your own database there, MongoDB, whatever
you want,
you want to store your data here,
now we will add more code though to make sure we not only store data on new posts but also that once
we did so, we can successfully send a push message to all subscribed clients. To do that,
I first of all will import a new package in my server side code, I'll name it web push and require the
web push package
we just imported.
Then I want to do something here when we know that we stored something successfully in the database,
I want to start sending my push notification here.
So first of all, we need to use the web push package and call set vapid details because there's one
thing missing,
we never added our private key to our app.
As I mentioned, we certainly shouldn't do this in our front-end code but here on the server, we're safe,
at least relatively safe.
Now let's open up the console and grab that private key,
not the public one, the private one.
Copy it
and now here you don't need to transform it, you just pass it to this method though not as only argument,
there are more arguments you pass,
you actually also pass an identifier of yourselves and the public key.
So let's start with the identifier of yourself, that should be a valid e-mail address and you pass it
in a mailto:
and then your address format.
Now of course, you could pass a wrong one here
but if you're serious about your business and you don't have anything to hide, you're running a valid
business here, you want to pass your real e-mail address here,
so I'll pass business@academind.com,
our business address. Now
the next argument is your public key, I'll leave this out for now.
The third one is the private key, as a string.
Now the public key, we have that in our front-end code,
it's that key, not the transformed array, it's just the key, the original public key and you store this
here too. You
don't need to transform this into this Uint8Array here on the back-end.
So now we set up the vapid details on this web push package which does something with that information
behind the scenes of course
and now the web push package has all the information it needs to send a new push request.
Well almost,
we of course also need our subscriptions
we have in the database, right? Here, subscriptions,
we want to send a push request to all our subscriptions. For that,
I first of all need to fetch them and I can do this by returning admin database,
so to access the database, ref and then here it's subscriptions. That was our node name we set up if you
use a different one, use a different one here to of course and then we can chain the once command to
only fetch data once and not set up a permanent listener and pass value as a string to once to basically
identify or clarify that you want to get the value of that node.
Now we return something here,
hence this will never get executed, so let's cut it and let's chain another
then call here. In that function here, we'll actually get our subscriptions,
so maybe you name it subscriptions. Here at the end,
I want to set my response still, so I'll add it here
but before I do that, I want to send out my push messages. For that, we can access the subscriptions object
and keep in mind, Firebase retrieves this from the database as a Javascript object not as an array but Firebase,
if you use the SDK for retrieving as we do here, gives you a convenience method call, forEach which allows
you to loop through all the properties in your Javascript object,
so basically through all the elements in the subscriptions node. There it executes a function on each item
in there,
so the individual subscription and sub will therefore just be this part here, endpoint and keys,
that's your sub object.
Firebase loops through all these keys you have here, only one in this case
but if you had more it will loop through all of them and give you back that object which is nested inside
it.
So subholds, endpoint and keys,
that's the information we need to send a new push request.
So what I'll do here inside this function is I'll create a new variable which I'll name pushConfig
and pushConfig will be a Javascript object which has to have the following structure
because you will later pass it on to web push,
so the structure is given. pushConfig has a structure where we need to define the endpoint. So we
can extract this from sub, though here since we get it through the Firebase SDK, we have to call the
val method to extract the real core Javascript value and that will then have an endpoint property because
again, sub refers to this whole Javascript object,
so this object basically and there with an endpoint, the keys property and now we access endpoint
to get this URL.
So that's the first thing we extract, the endpoint
and of course the web push, the package needs that information to send our push request there.
The second argument is keys,
so here I will simply set up auth and pass sub.val keys auth
and yes you could overall just set pushConfig equal to sub.val
since it has exactly the same structure,
I just want to really emphasize the values, the configuration
you need to pass to pushConfig because of course in your server, you might store this differently and
therefore it's important to see the final config you pass to web push.
So auth which you retrieve from the keys property and then the auth property and the p256dh
key which is also sub.val keys and then it's p256dh. This is the set up, the pushConfig.
Now still inside this forEach loop because I want to do it for every subscription,
I will send the notification.
So I will use the web push package here,
whoops,
I'm inside the pushConfig though,
so after setting up the pushConfig, I'll use web push and call send notification here.
And now we will pass pushConfig as the first argument and a second can be any payload we want to
pass along,
this is of course very important because for most messages, we want to send some payload.
This should be a string and I will use JSON.stringify to convert a Javascript object into
JSON, so into a string therefore
and I will pass a title where I say new post, I will pass a content property where I will say new post added
and that's it for now.
So this is the notification I want to send with the payload
I want to send, this actually returns a promise.
Now I don't need to listen to the then block, I want to catch any errors though,
so here I will provide a catch listener,
this function will get executed in case of errors.
and I want to log it to the console to see if we got any error.
That's actually it,
that's the server side setup. With that, let's deploy the solution by running Firebase deploy in our project
folder which is managed by the Firebase CLI as we set it up in the last course module and this will
now upload the updated function to Firebase, takes a couple of seconds up to minutes. Once it did so, we
should be able to successfully click enable notifications to create a new subscription,
we already have that even and then start creating new posts and hopefully send push notifications upon
the creation of every new post.
The deploy process finished for me,
so let's now try it out,
we get a subscription stored.
Now the cool thing is we can even use our application without clearing the storage
and actually you shouldn't do that because you render your old subscription useless,
you would then have to create enable notifications again and best clean up your existing one.
So I won't clear the data,
just click on plus and send a new message with push from anywhere and
let's see if that works.
So I'm sending this,
how do we find out? Well we can't,
we're not listening to push messages from the server.
However we can do something,
we can go to the functions tab here and see if we got any errors or if it did send it. So we can view the
logs on this function here
and we see that here, this is the last time I executed it,
store post, that the function execution finished with 201 and we can confirm that we added this new
post to the database,
so this one, anywhere with push.
So it seems like it worked,
we probably also got this push message off but of course we don't see it because we're not listening
to it in our application,
we don't do anything with the incoming push messages.
Time to change this in the next lecture.